The appendix is a small pouch
at the site where the small
and large intestine come together.
Appendicitis means the appendix is inflamed,
often because a piece of stool is blocking its opening.
Common symptoms of an inflamed appendix include:
Pain in the abdomen starting
near the belly button
and moving to the lower right,
that gets worse when you move
lack of appetite
nausea and vomiting
mild fever
An inflamed appendix usually
needs to be removed.
This surgical procedure,
called an appendectomy,
can be done through tiny cuts
or one larger cut
in the lower right side of the belly.
A tool that cuts tissue and stops
bleeding is used to remove the appendix.
If the appendix has burst or ruptured,
a tube may be put in the abdomen
for a few days so the infection can drain.